NASA API's

The objective of this site is to make NASA data, including imagery, eminently accessible to application developers. The api.nasa.gov catalog is growing.

 First, to get started with using NASA APIs, They recommend applying for an API key, reviewing the Authentication section, then once ready, dive in to API calls.


Example 1:

 

APOD API
One of the most popular websites at NASA is the Astronomy Picture of the Day. In fact, this website is one of the most popular websites across all federal agencies. It has the popular appeal of a Justin Bieber video. This endpoint structures the APOD imagery and associated metadata so that it can be repurposed for other applications. In addition, if the concept_tags parameter is set to True, then keywords derived from the image explanation are returned. These keywords could be used as auto-generated hashtags for twitter or instagram feeds; but generally help with discoverability of relevant imagery.

api with demo key: https://api.nasa.gov/planetary/apod?api_key=DEMO_KEY

api with my key :  https://api.nasa.gov/planetary/apod?api_key=JYR0UYDcjCAisaxmZ7TVdjo7QCTMlfx1IQzfiTa0


json is picture of type abject. having 8 keys (copyright , date , explanation, hdurl ,media_type , service_version , title , url ) with all string type values. 
it holds the picture of the day which can be accessed through this api.

	
Authentication
api.nasa.gov Web Services can in fact be called without an API key,but this introduces limitations related to Rate Limiting of calls. To understand how to use your API key to sign calls, details about Web Service and DEMO_KEY Rate Limits, and viewing current usage, please visit the API Authentication Section on the NASA API Listing page for detailed information.

DEMO_KEY Rate Limits
In documentation examples, the special DEMO_KEY api key is used. This API key can be used for initially exploring APIs prior to signing up, but it has much lower rate limits, so you’re encouraged to signup for your own API key if you plan to use the API (signup is quick and easy). The rate limits for the DEMO_KEY are:

Hourly Limit: 30 requests per IP address per hour
Daily Limit: 50 requests per IP address per day